Skip Navigation

Markets

Pre-Markets

U.S. Markets

Europe Markets

China Markets

Asia Markets

World Markets

Currencies

Prediction Markets

Cryptocurrency

Futures & Commodities

Bonds

Funds & ETFs

Business

Economy

Finance

Health & Science

Media

Real Estate

Energy

Climate

Transportation

Investigations

Industrials

Retail

Wealth

Sports

Life

Small Business

Investing

Personal Finance

Fintech

Financial Advisors

Options Action

ETF Street

Buffett Archive

Earnings

Trader Talk

Tech

Cybersecurity

AI

Enterprise

Internet

Media

Mobile

Social Media

CNBC Disruptor 50

Tech Guide

Politics & Policy

White House

Policy

Defense

Congress

Expanding Opportunity

Europe Politics

China Politics

Asia Politics

World Politics

Video

Latest Video

Full Episodes

Livestream

Top Video

Live Audio

Europe TV

Asia TV

CNBC Podcasts

CEO Interviews

Digital Originals

Watchlist

Investing Club

Trust Portfolio

Analysis

Trade Alerts

Meeting Videos

Homestretch

Jim's Columns

Education

Subscribe

PRO

Pro News

Josh Brown

Mike Santoli

Calls of the Day

My Portfolio

Livestream

Full Episodes

Stock Screener

Market Forecast

Options Investing

Chart Investing

Subscribe

Livestream

Menu

Make It

select

USA

INTL

Livestream

Search quotes, news & videos

Livestream

Watchlist

SIGN IN

Create free account

Markets

Business

Investing

Tech

Politics & Policy

Video

Watchlist

Investing Club

PRO

Livestream

Menu

AI Effect

AI at Work

AI Insights

AI Impact

AI Events

AI Age

OpenAI cuts prices for two of its GPT-5.6 AI models as companies grow sensitive to costs

Published Thu, Jul 30 20261:01 PM EDTUpdated Thu, Jul 30 20261:27 PM EDT

Ashley Capoot@/in/ashley-capoot/

WATCH LIVE

Key Points

OpenAI announced it is slashing the price of two of its latest artificial intelligence models, GPT-5.6 Terra and GPT-5.6 Luna.

The company said it is reducing the price of Terra by 20% and the cost of Luna by 80%.

The company is facing pressure to cater to a more cost-sensitive customer base and fend off competition from Chinese startups and other tech giants.

In this article

OPENAI.FG

Follow your favorite stocksCREATE FREE ACCOUNT

Open AI CEO Sam Altman reacts as he attends the G7 summit, in Evian, eastern France, on June 17, 2026.

Mandel Ngan | Afp | Getty Images

OpenAI on Thursday announced it is slashing the price of two of its latest artificial intelligence models, GPT-5.6 Terra and GPT-5.6 Luna, roughly three weeks after their public release.

The company is facing pressure to cater to a more cost-sensitive customer base, where enterprises have been less inclined to deploy expensive models without a clear picture of the return on their investments. It's also working to fend off competition from Chinese startups and tech giants Google and Microsoft, which have been touting cost-effective models.

OpenAI launched three models as part of its GPT-5.6 series, including Sol, the most powerful offering, Terra, the mid-tier model, and Luna, its fastest offering.

The company said Thursday that it's reducing the price of Terra by 20% to $2 per million input tokens and $12 per million output tokens. It's cutting the cost of Luna by 80% to 20 cents per million input tokens and $1.20 per million output tokens. Sol's pricing remains the same.

"Our strategy remains focused on advancing both capability and efficiency so each generation of intelligence can accomplish more work at a lower cost," OpenAI said in a release.

OpenAI kickstarted the AI boom with the launch of ChatGPT in 2022, prompting companies across the U.S. to rush to deploy the technology and incentivize adoption within their workforces. The era of so-called tokenmaxxing was born, where employers encouraged staffers to use as much AI as possible without worrying about costs.

Read more CNBC tech news

Anthropic CFO Krishna Rao is leading early IPO meetings with investors and has not discussed valuation, sources say

An inside look at SK Hynix $720 billion AI-fueled buildout that's taking over South Korea

Databricks wraps $5 billion funding round at $190 billion valuation

Meta and Nvidia plant 'very firm flag' in open-weight AI race led by Chinese Labs

But as AI bills have ballooned, sometimes to the tune of billions of dollars, many companies have been actively working to rein in their spending. It's a shift that AI developers have been watching closely, especially as Chinese open-weight models have rapidly caught up with leading, proprietary offerings.

Open-weight AI models are available for users to download, modify and run on their own infrastructure, and can serve as a cost-effective option for companies. Moonshot AI, a Chinese startup, released an open-weight model called Kimi K3 earlier this month that outperforms cutting-edge American offerings across some industry benchmarks, prompting a swift reaction from Silicon Valley.

Following Moonshot's announcement, OpenAI's chief rival, Anthropic, released a new model called Claude Opus 5, which it touted as its best-performing and most cost-effective offering for many use cases. It's half the price of Claude Fable 5, the advanced model that Anthropic announced in June, even though it performs comparably across coding and knowledge work tasks.

Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella repeatedly highlighted his company's cost-effective models during its quarterly earnings call with investors on Wednesday, following the launch of what it described as a cheap-but-performant cybersecurity model earlier this week.

Google also debuted three new models this month that aimed to undercut competitors on cost. The company said Gemini 3.6 Flash, the strongest of its new offerings, is cheaper per task than Kimi K3 and other Chinese models.

WATCH: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman to meet with White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles this week

watch now

VIDEO1:2801:28

OpenAI CEO Sam Altman to meet with White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles this week

The Exchange

Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.

More In AI Age

Nvidia backing $105 billion in financing for OpenAI data center in Ohio

Samantha Subin

OpenAI CFO Friar tells investors that enterprise business now bigger than consumer by revenue

Kate Rooney

OpenAI talent exodus raises 'huge red flag' ahead of IPO

Ashley Capoot

Read More

Subscribe to CNBC PRO

Subscribe to Investing Club

Licensing & Reprints

CNBC Councils

Join the CNBC Panel

Digital Products

News Releases

Closed Captioning

Corrections

About CNBC

Internships

Site Map

Careers

Help

Contact

News Tips

Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Get In Touch

CNBC Newsletters

Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Sign Up Now
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.

Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us

Ad Choices

Privacy Policy

Your Privacy Choices

CA Notice

Terms of Service

© 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.

Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
and Analysis.

Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers
Data also provided by